hey this is pressure Locker a
statistician keeps a simple wardrobe
he only purchases pairs of black socks
and white socks and he keeps all of the
socks in a pile in the drawer recently
one of the socks was lost in the laundry
the socks now have a mathematical
property if you select two socks at
random from the drawer the socks will
match in color exactly 50% of the time
the statistician owns more than 200
socks but less than 250 socks and there
are more black socks than white socks
how many socks of each color are there
and which color sock was lost in the
laundry can you figure it out give this
prom a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
we can solve this problem by drawing a
tree of the possible ways to draw socks
on the first draw you could draw a black
sock or you could draw a white sock
suppose there are B black socks and W
white socks suppose you drew a black
sock on the next draw you could draw
another black sock since you've already
pulled out one black sock from the
drawer there is one fewer black sock
remaining so there are B minus one black
socks that this could have been from if
we multiply these two numbers
B times B minus one we get the total
number of ways that we could have drawn
two black socks in a row on the second
draw we could have also drawn a white
sock there would have been W white socks
remaining in the drawer and if we
multiply B times W we get the number of
ways that we could pick a black sock on
the first draw and a white sock on the
second draw now let's consider the drip
the branch if we drew a white sock we
could then draw a black sock there are B
black socks remaining we multiply W and
B we get B W which is the number of ways
that we could get a white sock and then
a black sock we could also have picked
out a white sock on the second draw
since we've already picked one white
sock there are W minus 1 white socks
remaining if we multiply these two
numbers we get W times W minus 1 it's
the number of ways to pick two white
socks in a row so how does this help us
solve the problem we know that if we
pick two socks we are told the
probability that these two socks will
match is equal to 50 percent since socks
can either be matching or not matching
that means the probability of picking
two socks which are not matching in
color is also equal to 50% therefore the
probability of picking a matching pair
is equal to the probability of picking a
not matching pair in other words the
number of ways to pick two socks which
match in color equals the number of ways
to pick two socks which do not match in
color we figured out the number of ways
from the tree of possibilities that
we've just drawn out so how many ways
are there to pick two socks which match
when we pick two black socks there's B
times B minus 1 ways and when we pick 2
white socks it's W times W minus 1 ways
so the total number of ways to pick two
socks which match is the sum of these
two quantities the remaining
possibilities are for when we pick two
socks which do not match in color this
will be equal to 2 BW we can now
simplify this equation and we end up
with B minus W the quantity squared is
equal to B plus W now we need to deduce
some things from what we know about the
total number of socks this equation
tells us that the total number of socks
B plus W is a perfect square we know
this because B plus W is equal to the
quantity B minus W squared furthermore
we are told in the problem that the
total number of socks is between 200 and
250 we can then consider which perfect
squares are between 200 and 250 and the
only possibility is 15 squared equals
225 so we figured out the total number
of socks
is equal to 225 we also know the
quantity B - sylvie squared is equal to
15 squared this implies that either B -
Sylvio is equal to 15 or W minus B is
equal to 15 but we can conclude B minus
W is equal to 15 because we were given
that there are more black socks than
there were white socks so we have a
system of equations which we can then
solve for the two variables B and W if
we add up these two equations and divide
by 2 we get
that B is equal to 120 we then know
there are 15 more black socks and white
socks and therefore the number of white
socks is equal to 105 so we figured out
the number of socks of each color and we
can now figure out which sock was lost
in laundry since the statistician only
buy socks in pairs
it must be the case that pairs of socks
would be a total number that's an even
number but the number of white socks is
odd therefore we know that the missing
sock must have been the white sock did
you figure out this problem thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch them in my
blog mind your decisions which you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media at
pressure Locker and if you like this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description